README.md, before:

# Vision-and-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments (VLN-CE)

[Project Website](https://jacobkrantz.github.io/vlnce/) — [VLN-CE Challenge](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/719) — [RxR-Habitat Challenge](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat)

Official implementations:

- *Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision-and-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments* ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857))
- *Waypoint Models for Instruction-guided Navigation in Continuous Environments* ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.02207), [README](/vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_waypoint/README.md))

Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments (VLN-CE) is an instruction-guided navigation task with crowdsourced instructions, realistic environments, and unconstrained agent navigation. This repo is a launching point for interacting with the VLN-CE task and provides both baseline agents and training methods. Both the Room-to-Room (**R2R**) and the Room-Across-Room (**RxR**) datasets are supported. VLN-CE is implemented using the Habitat platform.

<p align="center">
  <img width="775" height="360" src="./data/res/VLN_comparison.gif" alt="VLN-CE comparison to VLN">
</p>

## Setup

This project is developed with Python 3.6. If you are using [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) or [anaconda](https://anaconda.org/), you can create an environment:

```bash
conda create -n vlnce python3.6
conda activate vlnce
```

VLN-CE uses [Habitat-Sim](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/tree/v0.1.7) 0.1.7 which can be [built from source](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/tree/v0.1.7#installation) or installed from conda:

```bash
conda install -c aihabitat -c conda-forge habitat-sim=0.1.7 headless
```

Then install [Habitat-Lab](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-lab/tree/v0.1.7):

```bash
git clone --branch v0.1.7 git@github.com:facebookresearch/habitat-lab.git
cd habitat-lab
# installs both habitat and habitat_baselines
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m pip install -r habitat_baselines/rl/requirements.txt
python -m pip install -r habitat_baselines/rl/ddppo/requirements.txt
python setup.py develop --all
```

Now you can install VLN-CE:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:jacobkrantz/VLN-CE.git
cd VLN-CE
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Data

#### Scenes: Matterport3D

Matterport3D (MP3D) scene reconstructions are used. The official Matterport3D download script (`download_mp.py`) can be accessed by following the instructions on their [project webpage](https://niessner.github.io/Matterport/). The scene data can then be downloaded:

```bash
# requires running with python 2.7
python download_mp.py --task habitat -o data/scene_datasets/mp3d/
```

Extract such that it has the form `data/scene_datasets/mp3d/{scene}/{scene}.glb`. There should be 90 scenes.

#### Episodes: Room-to-Room (R2R)

The R2R_VLNCE dataset is a port of the Room-to-Room (R2R) dataset created by [Anderson et al](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Anderson_Vision-and-Language_Navigation_Interpreting_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf) for use with the [Matterport3DSimulator](https://github.com/peteanderson80/Matterport3DSimulator) (MP3D-Sim). For details on porting to 3D reconstructions, please see our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857). `R2R_VLNCE_v1-3` is a minimal version of the dataset and `R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed` runs baseline models out of the box. See the [dataset page](https://jacobkrantz.github.io/vlnce/data) for format, contents, and a changelog. We encourage use of the most recent version (`v1-3`).

| Dataset | Extract path | Size |
|-------------- |---------------------------- |------- |
| [R2R_VLNCE_v1-3.zip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qrdomxA5fuQ6n44NXzPAJe2dMdxatvma/view) | `data/datasets/R2R_VLNCE_v1-3` | 3 MB |
| [R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed.zip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kQ_at68wiK2vAmlWbjJ4EDrLtaM0nfkR/view) | `data/datasets/R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed` | 250 MB |

Downloading via CLI:

```bash
# R2R_VLNCE_v1-3
gdown https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1qrdomxA5fuQ6n44NXzPAJe2dMdxatvma
# R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed
gdown https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1kQ_at68wiK2vAmlWbjJ4EDrLtaM0nfkR
```

##### Encoder Weights

Baseline models encode depth observations using a ResNet pre-trained on PointGoal navigation. Those weights can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-lab/tree/master/habitat_baselines/rl/ddppo) (672M). Extract the contents to `data/ddppo-models/{model}.pth`.

#### Episodes: Room-Across-Room (RxR)

Download: [RxR_VLNCE_v0.zip](https://storage.googleapis.com/rxr-habitat/RxR_VLNCE_v0.zip)

About the [Room-Across-Room dataset](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/) (RxR):

- multilingual instructions (English, Hindi, Telugu)
- an order of magnitude larger than existing datasets
- varied paths to break a shortest-path-to-goal assumption

RxR was ported to continuous environments originally for the [RxR-Habitat Challenge](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat). The dataset has `train`, `val_seen`, `val_unseen`, and `test_challenge` splits with both Guide and Follower trajectories ported. The starter code expects files in this structure:

```graphql
data/datasets
├─ RxR_VLNCE_v0
|   ├─ train
|   |    ├─ train_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ val_seen
|   |    ├─ val_seen_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ val_unseen
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ test_challenge
|   |    ├─ test_challenge_guide.json.gz
|   ├─ text_features
|   |    ├─ ...
```

The baseline models for RxR-Habitat use precomputed BERT instruction features which can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/google-research-datasets/RxR#downloading-bert-text-features) and saved to `data/datasets/RxR_VLNCE_v0/text_features/rxr_{split}/{instruction_id}_{language}_text_features.npz`.

## RxR-Habitat Challenge

<p align="center">
  <img width="573" height="360" src="/data/res/rxr_teaser.gif" alt="RxR Challenge Teaser GIF">
</p>

**NEW: The 2022 RxR-Habitat Challenge is live!**

- Challenge webpage: [ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat)
- Workshop webpage: [embodied-ai.org](https://embodied-ai.org/)

The RxR-Habitat is hosted at the CVPR 2022 [Embodied AI workshop](https://embodied-ai.org/) set for June 19th, 2022. The leaderboard opens for challenge submissions on March 1. For official guidelines, please visit: [ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat). We encourage submissions on this dificult task!

The RxR-Habitat Challenge is hosted by Oregon State University, Google Research, and Facebook AI Research. This is the second year of the RxR-Habitat Challenge which first appeared at the 2021 CVPR [EAI workshop](https://embodied-ai.org/cvpr2021).

### Timeline

|               Event               |       Date      |
|:---------------------------------:|:---------------:|
|          Challenge Launch         |   Feb 14, 2022  |
|          Leaderboard Open         |   Mar 1, 2022  |
|         Leaderboard Closes        |   May 31, 2022  |
| Workshop and Winners Announcement | Jun 19, 2022 |

### Generating Submissions

Submissions are made by running an agent locally and submitting a jsonlines file (`.jsonl`) containing the agent's trajectories. Starter code for generating this file is provided in the function `BaseVLNCETrainer.inference()`. Here is an example of generating predictions for English using the Cross-Modal Attention baseline:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/rxr_baselines/rxr_cma_en.yaml \
  --run-type inference
```

If you use different models for different languages, you can merge their predictions with `scripts/merge_inference_predictions.py`. Submissions are only accepted that contain all episodes from all three languages in the `test-challenge` split. Starter code for this challenge was originally hosted in the `rxr-habitat-challenge` branch but is now integrated in `master`.

#### Required Task Configurations

As specified in the [challenge webpage](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat), submissions to the official challenge must have an action space of 30 degree turn angles, a 0.25m step size, and look up / look down actions of 30 degrees. The agent is given a 480x640 RGBD observation space. An example task configuration is given [here](/habitat_extensions/config/rxr_vlnce_english_task.yaml) which loads the English portion of the dataset.

The CMA baseline model ([config](/vlnce_baselines/config/rxr_baselines/rxr_cma_en.yaml)) is an example of a valid submission. Existing [waypoint models](/vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_waypoint) are not valid due to their panoramic observation space. Such models would need to be adapted to the challenge configuration.

### Citing RxR-Habitat Challenge

To cite the challenge, please cite the following papers ([RxR](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.07954) and [VLN-CE](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857)):

```tex
@inproceedings{ku2020room,
  title={Room-Across-Room: Multilingual Vision-and-Language Navigation with Dense Spatiotemporal Grounding},
  author={Ku, Alexander and Anderson, Peter and Patel, Roma and Ie, Eugene and Baldridge, Jason},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)},
  pages={4392--4412},
  year={2020}
}

@inproceedings{krantz_vlnce_2020,
  title={Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments},
  author={Jacob Krantz and Erik Wijmans and Arjun Majundar and Dhruv Batra and Stefan Lee},
  booktitle={European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  year={2020}
 }
```

## Questions?

Feel free to contact the challenge organizers with any questions, comments, or concerns. The corresponding organizer is Jacob Krantz (@jacobkrantz). You can also open an issue with `[RxR-Habitat]` in the title, which will also notify us.

## VLN-CE Challenge (R2R Data)

The [VLN-CE Challenge](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/719) is live and taking submissions for public test set evaluation. This challenge uses the R2R data ported in the original VLN-CE paper.

To submit to the leaderboard, you must run your agent locally and submit a JSON file containing the generated agent trajectories. Starter code for generating this JSON file is provided in the function `BaseVLNCETrainer.inference()`. Here is an example of generating this file using the pretrained Cross-Modal Attention baseline:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/test_set_inference.yaml \
  --run-type inference
```

Predictions must be in a specific format. Please visit the challenge webpage for guidelines.

### Baseline Performance

The baseline model for the VLN-CE task is the cross-modal attention model trained with progress monitoring, DAgger, and augmented data (CMA_PM_DA_Aug). As evaluated on the leaderboard, this model achieves:

| Split      | TL   | NE   | OS   | SR   | SPL  |
|:----------:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|
| Test       | 8.85 | 7.91 | 0.36 | 0.28 | 0.25 |
| Val Unseen | 8.27 | 7.60 | 0.36 | 0.29 | 0.27 |
| Val Seen   | 9.06 | 7.21 | 0.44 | 0.34 | 0.32 |

This model was originally presented with a val_unseen performance of 0.30 SPL, however the leaderboard evaluates this same model at 0.27 SPL. The model was trained and evaluated on a hardware + Habitat build that gave slightly different results, as is the case for the other paper experiments. Going forward, the leaderboard contains the performance metrics that should be used for official comparison. In our tests, the installation procedure for this repo gives nearly identical evaluation to the leaderboard, but we recognize that compute hardware along with the version and build of Habitat are factors to reproducibility.

For push-button replication of all VLN-CE experiments, see [here](vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/README.md).

## Starter Code

The `run.py` script controls training and evaluation for all models and datasets:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config path/to/experiment_config.yaml \
  --run-type {train | eval | inference}
```

For example, a random agent can be evaluated on 10 val-seen episodes of R2R using this command:

```bash
python run.py --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/nonlearning.yaml --run-type eval
```

For lists of modifiable configuration options, see the default [task config](habitat_extensions/config/default.py) and [experiment config](vlnce_baselines/config/default.py) files.

### Training Agents

The `DaggerTrainer` class is the standard trainer and supports teacher forcing or dataset aggregation (DAgger). This trainer saves trajectories consisting of RGB, depth, ground-truth actions, and instructions to disk to avoid time spent in simulation.

The `RecollectTrainer` class performs teacher forcing using the ground truth trajectories provided in the dataset rather than a shortest path expert. Also, this trainer does not save episodes to disk, instead opting to recollect them in simulation.

Both trainers inherit from `BaseVLNCETrainer`.

### Evaluating Agents

Evaluation on validation splits can be done by running `python run.py --exp-config path/to/experiment_config.yaml --run-type eval`. If `EVAL.EPISODE_COUNT == -1`, all episodes will be evaluated. If `EVAL_CKPT_PATH_DIR` is a directory, each checkpoint will be evaluated one at a time.

### Cuda

Cuda will be used by default if it is available. We find that one GPU for the model and several GPUs for simulation is favorable.

```yaml
SIMULATOR_GPU_IDS: [0]  # list of GPU IDs to run simulations
TORCH_GPU_ID: 0  # GPU for pytorch-related code (the model)
NUM_ENVIRONMENTS: 1  # Each GPU runs NUM_ENVIRONMENTS environments
```

The simulator and torch code do not need to run on the same device. For faster training and evaluation, we recommend running with as many `NUM_ENVIRONMENTS` as will fit on your GPU while assuming 1 CPU core per env.

## License

The VLN-CE codebase is [MIT licensed](LICENSE). Trained models and task datasets are considered data derived from the mp3d scene dataset. Matterport3D based task datasets and trained models are distributed with [Matterport3D Terms of Use](http://kaldir.vc.in.tum.de/matterport/MP_TOS.pdf) and under [CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 US license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/).

## Citing

If you use VLN-CE in your research, please cite the following [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857):

```tex
@inproceedings{krantz_vlnce_2020,
  title={Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments},
  author={Jacob Krantz and Erik Wijmans and Arjun Majundar and Dhruv Batra and Stefan Lee},
  booktitle={European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  year={2020}
 }
```

If you use the RxR-Habitat data, please additionally cite the following [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.07954):

```tex
@inproceedings{ku2020room,
  title={Room-Across-Room: Multilingual Vision-and-Language Navigation with Dense Spatiotemporal Grounding},
  author={Ku, Alexander and Anderson, Peter and Patel, Roma and Ie, Eugene and Baldridge, Jason},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)},
  pages={4392--4412},
  year={2020}
}
```

Commit message:

Update README: RxR-Habitat baselines (#38)

README.md, after:

# Vision-and-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments (VLN-CE)

[Project Website](https://jacobkrantz.github.io/vlnce/) — [VLN-CE Challenge](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/719) — [RxR-Habitat Challenge](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat)

Official implementations:

- *Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision-and-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments* ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857))
- *Waypoint Models for Instruction-guided Navigation in Continuous Environments* ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.02207), [README](/vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_waypoint/README.md))

Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments (VLN-CE) is an instruction-guided navigation task with crowdsourced instructions, realistic environments, and unconstrained agent navigation. This repo is a launching point for interacting with the VLN-CE task and provides both baseline agents and training methods. Both the Room-to-Room (**R2R**) and the Room-Across-Room (**RxR**) datasets are supported. VLN-CE is implemented using the Habitat platform.

<p align="center">
  <img width="775" height="360" src="./data/res/VLN_comparison.gif" alt="VLN-CE comparison to VLN">
</p>

## Setup

This project is developed with Python 3.6. If you are using [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) or [anaconda](https://anaconda.org/), you can create an environment:

```bash
conda create -n vlnce python3.6
conda activate vlnce
```

VLN-CE uses [Habitat-Sim](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/tree/v0.1.7) 0.1.7 which can be [built from source](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/tree/v0.1.7#installation) or installed from conda:

```bash
conda install -c aihabitat -c conda-forge habitat-sim=0.1.7 headless
```

Then install [Habitat-Lab](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-lab/tree/v0.1.7):

```bash
git clone --branch v0.1.7 git@github.com:facebookresearch/habitat-lab.git
cd habitat-lab
# installs both habitat and habitat_baselines
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m pip install -r habitat_baselines/rl/requirements.txt
python -m pip install -r habitat_baselines/rl/ddppo/requirements.txt
python setup.py develop --all
```

Now you can install VLN-CE:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:jacobkrantz/VLN-CE.git
cd VLN-CE
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Data

#### Scenes: Matterport3D

Matterport3D (MP3D) scene reconstructions are used. The official Matterport3D download script (`download_mp.py`) can be accessed by following the instructions on their [project webpage](https://niessner.github.io/Matterport/). The scene data can then be downloaded:

```bash
# requires running with python 2.7
python download_mp.py --task habitat -o data/scene_datasets/mp3d/
```

Extract such that it has the form `data/scene_datasets/mp3d/{scene}/{scene}.glb`. There should be 90 scenes.

#### Episodes: Room-to-Room (R2R)

The R2R_VLNCE dataset is a port of the Room-to-Room (R2R) dataset created by [Anderson et al](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Anderson_Vision-and-Language_Navigation_Interpreting_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf) for use with the [Matterport3DSimulator](https://github.com/peteanderson80/Matterport3DSimulator) (MP3D-Sim). For details on porting to 3D reconstructions, please see our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857). `R2R_VLNCE_v1-3` is a minimal version of the dataset and `R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed` runs baseline models out of the box. See the [dataset page](https://jacobkrantz.github.io/vlnce/data) for format, contents, and a changelog. We encourage use of the most recent version (`v1-3`).

| Dataset | Extract path | Size |
|-------------- |---------------------------- |------- |
| [R2R_VLNCE_v1-3.zip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qrdomxA5fuQ6n44NXzPAJe2dMdxatvma/view) | `data/datasets/R2R_VLNCE_v1-3` | 3 MB |
| [R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed.zip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kQ_at68wiK2vAmlWbjJ4EDrLtaM0nfkR/view) | `data/datasets/R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed` | 250 MB |

Downloading via CLI:

```bash
# R2R_VLNCE_v1-3
gdown https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1qrdomxA5fuQ6n44NXzPAJe2dMdxatvma
# R2R_VLNCE_v1-3_preprocessed
gdown https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1kQ_at68wiK2vAmlWbjJ4EDrLtaM0nfkR
```

##### Encoder Weights

Baseline models encode depth observations using a ResNet pre-trained on PointGoal navigation. Those weights can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-lab/tree/master/habitat_baselines/rl/ddppo) (672M). Extract the contents to `data/ddppo-models/{model}.pth`.

#### Episodes: Room-Across-Room (RxR)

Download: [RxR_VLNCE_v0.zip](https://storage.googleapis.com/rxr-habitat/RxR_VLNCE_v0.zip)

About the [Room-Across-Room dataset](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/) (RxR):

- multilingual instructions (English, Hindi, Telugu)
- an order of magnitude larger than existing datasets
- varied paths to break a shortest-path-to-goal assumption

RxR was ported to continuous environments originally for the [RxR-Habitat Challenge](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat). The dataset has `train`, `val_seen`, `val_unseen`, and `test_challenge` splits with both Guide and Follower trajectories ported. The starter code expects files in this structure:

```graphql
data/datasets
├─ RxR_VLNCE_v0
|   ├─ train
|   |    ├─ train_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ train_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ val_seen
|   |    ├─ val_seen_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_seen_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ val_unseen
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_guide.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_guide_gt.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_follower.json.gz
|   |    ├─ val_unseen_follower_gt.json.gz
|   ├─ test_challenge
|   |    ├─ test_challenge_guide.json.gz
|   ├─ text_features
|   |    ├─ ...
```

The baseline models for RxR-Habitat use precomputed BERT instruction features which can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/google-research-datasets/RxR#downloading-bert-text-features) and saved to `data/datasets/RxR_VLNCE_v0/text_features/rxr_{split}/{instruction_id}_{language}_text_features.npz`.

## RxR-Habitat Challenge

<p align="center">
  <img width="573" height="360" src="/data/res/rxr_teaser.gif" alt="RxR Challenge Teaser GIF">
</p>

**NEW: The 2022 RxR-Habitat Challenge is live!**

- Challenge webpage: [ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat)
- Workshop webpage: [embodied-ai.org](https://embodied-ai.org/)

The RxR-Habitat is hosted at the CVPR 2022 [Embodied AI workshop](https://embodied-ai.org/) set for June 19th, 2022. The leaderboard opens for challenge submissions on March 1. For official guidelines, please visit: [ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat). We encourage submissions on this dificult task!

The RxR-Habitat Challenge is hosted by Oregon State University, Google Research, and Facebook AI Research. This is the second year of the RxR-Habitat Challenge which first appeared at the 2021 CVPR [EAI workshop](https://embodied-ai.org/cvpr2021).

### Timeline

|               Event               |       Date      |
|:---------------------------------:|:---------------:|
|          Challenge Launch         |   Feb 14, 2022  |
|          Leaderboard Open         |   Mar 1, 2022  |
|         Leaderboard Closes        |   May 31, 2022  |
| Workshop and Winners Announcement | Jun 19, 2022 |

### Generating Submissions

Submissions are made by running an agent locally and submitting a jsonlines file (`.jsonl`) containing the agent's trajectories. Starter code for generating this file is provided in the function `BaseVLNCETrainer.inference()`. Here is an example of generating predictions for English using the Cross-Modal Attention baseline:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/rxr_baselines/rxr_cma_en.yaml \
  --run-type inference
```

If you use different models for different languages, you can merge their predictions with `scripts/merge_inference_predictions.py`. Submissions are only accepted that contain all episodes from all three languages in the `test-challenge` split. Starter code for this challenge was originally hosted in the `rxr-habitat-challenge` branch but is now integrated in `master`.

#### Required Task Configurations

As specified in the [challenge webpage](https://ai.google.com/research/rxr/habitat), submissions to the official challenge must have an action space of 30 degree turn angles, a 0.25m step size, and look up / look down actions of 30 degrees. The agent is given a 480x640 RGBD observation space. An example task configuration is given [here](/habitat_extensions/config/rxr_vlnce_english_task.yaml) which loads the English portion of the dataset.

The CMA baseline model ([config](/vlnce_baselines/config/rxr_baselines/rxr_cma_en.yaml)) is an example of a valid submission. Existing [waypoint models](/vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_waypoint) are not valid due to their panoramic observation space. Such models would need to be adapted to the challenge configuration.

### Baseline Model

The official baseline for the RxR-Habitat Challenge is a monolingual cross-modal attention (CMA) model, labeled `Monolingual CMA Baseline` on the leaderboard. Configuration files for re-training or evaluating this model can be found in [this folder](vlnce_baselines/config/rxr_baselines) under the name `rxr_cma_{en|hi|te}.yaml`. Weights for the pre-trained models: [[en](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wllkdat_wJZcFY0AyBoRlajiE2as2m6O/view?usp=sharing) [hi](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GN6WbggQDTsYPsheRQFxE21Dr4UcIcab/view?usp=sharing) [te](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1B0v2QJL8gMUr-DlwAb-xVPzdN4coa7jD/view?usp=sharing)] (196MB each).

### Citing RxR-Habitat Challenge

To cite the challenge, please cite the following papers ([RxR](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.07954) and [VLN-CE](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857)):

```tex
@inproceedings{ku2020room,
  title={Room-Across-Room: Multilingual Vision-and-Language Navigation with Dense Spatiotemporal Grounding},
  author={Ku, Alexander and Anderson, Peter and Patel, Roma and Ie, Eugene and Baldridge, Jason},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)},
  pages={4392--4412},
  year={2020}
}

@inproceedings{krantz_vlnce_2020,
  title={Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments},
  author={Jacob Krantz and Erik Wijmans and Arjun Majundar and Dhruv Batra and Stefan Lee},
  booktitle={European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  year={2020}
 }
```

## Questions?

Feel free to contact the challenge organizers with any questions, comments, or concerns. The corresponding organizer is Jacob Krantz (@jacobkrantz). You can also open an issue with `[RxR-Habitat]` in the title, which will also notify us.

## VLN-CE Challenge (R2R Data)

The [VLN-CE Challenge](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/719) is live and taking submissions for public test set evaluation. This challenge uses the R2R data ported in the original VLN-CE paper.

To submit to the leaderboard, you must run your agent locally and submit a JSON file containing the generated agent trajectories. Starter code for generating this JSON file is provided in the function `BaseVLNCETrainer.inference()`. Here is an example of generating this file using the pretrained Cross-Modal Attention baseline:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/test_set_inference.yaml \
  --run-type inference
```

Predictions must be in a specific format. Please visit the challenge webpage for guidelines.

### Baseline Performance

The baseline model for the VLN-CE task is the cross-modal attention model trained with progress monitoring, DAgger, and augmented data (CMA_PM_DA_Aug). As evaluated on the leaderboard, this model achieves:

| Split      | TL   | NE   | OS   | SR   | SPL  |
|:----------:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|
| Test       | 8.85 | 7.91 | 0.36 | 0.28 | 0.25 |
| Val Unseen | 8.27 | 7.60 | 0.36 | 0.29 | 0.27 |
| Val Seen   | 9.06 | 7.21 | 0.44 | 0.34 | 0.32 |

This model was originally presented with a val_unseen performance of 0.30 SPL, however the leaderboard evaluates this same model at 0.27 SPL. The model was trained and evaluated on a hardware + Habitat build that gave slightly different results, as is the case for the other paper experiments. Going forward, the leaderboard contains the performance metrics that should be used for official comparison. In our tests, the installation procedure for this repo gives nearly identical evaluation to the leaderboard, but we recognize that compute hardware along with the version and build of Habitat are factors to reproducibility.

For push-button replication of all VLN-CE experiments, see [here](vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/README.md).

## Starter Code

The `run.py` script controls training and evaluation for all models and datasets:

```bash
python run.py \
  --exp-config path/to/experiment_config.yaml \
  --run-type {train | eval | inference}
```

For example, a random agent can be evaluated on 10 val-seen episodes of R2R using this command:

```bash
python run.py --exp-config vlnce_baselines/config/r2r_baselines/nonlearning.yaml --run-type eval
```

For lists of modifiable configuration options, see the default [task config](habitat_extensions/config/default.py) and [experiment config](vlnce_baselines/config/default.py) files.

### Training Agents

The `DaggerTrainer` class is the standard trainer and supports teacher forcing or dataset aggregation (DAgger). This trainer saves trajectories consisting of RGB, depth, ground-truth actions, and instructions to disk to avoid time spent in simulation.

The `RecollectTrainer` class performs teacher forcing using the ground truth trajectories provided in the dataset rather than a shortest path expert. Also, this trainer does not save episodes to disk, instead opting to recollect them in simulation.

Both trainers inherit from `BaseVLNCETrainer`.

### Evaluating Agents

Evaluation on validation splits can be done by running `python run.py --exp-config path/to/experiment_config.yaml --run-type eval`. If `EVAL.EPISODE_COUNT == -1`, all episodes will be evaluated. If `EVAL_CKPT_PATH_DIR` is a directory, each checkpoint will be evaluated one at a time.

### Cuda

Cuda will be used by default if it is available. We find that one GPU for the model and several GPUs for simulation is favorable.

```yaml
SIMULATOR_GPU_IDS: [0]  # list of GPU IDs to run simulations
TORCH_GPU_ID: 0  # GPU for pytorch-related code (the model)
NUM_ENVIRONMENTS: 1  # Each GPU runs NUM_ENVIRONMENTS environments
```

The simulator and torch code do not need to run on the same device. For faster training and evaluation, we recommend running with as many `NUM_ENVIRONMENTS` as will fit on your GPU while assuming 1 CPU core per env.

## License

The VLN-CE codebase is [MIT licensed](LICENSE). Trained models and task datasets are considered data derived from the mp3d scene dataset. Matterport3D based task datasets and trained models are distributed with [Matterport3D Terms of Use](http://kaldir.vc.in.tum.de/matterport/MP_TOS.pdf) and under [CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 US license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/).

## Citing

If you use VLN-CE in your research, please cite the following [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02857):

```tex
@inproceedings{krantz_vlnce_2020,
  title={Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision and Language Navigation in Continuous Environments},
  author={Jacob Krantz and Erik Wijmans and Arjun Majundar and Dhruv Batra and Stefan Lee},
  booktitle={European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  year={2020}
 }
```

If you use the RxR-Habitat data, please additionally cite the following [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.07954):

```tex
@inproceedings{ku2020room,
  title={Room-Across-Room: Multilingual Vision-and-Language Navigation with Dense Spatiotemporal Grounding},
  author={Ku, Alexander and Anderson, Peter and Patel, Roma and Ie, Eugene and Baldridge, Jason},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)},
  pages={4392--4412},
  year={2020}
}
```
